Plug-in boilerplate
===================

This is an empty project, used for developing plugins for DS Cinder. Plug-ins can be as simple as the `essentials` project located in the same directory you found this project or can be as complex as the `physics` plug-in.

What is a plug-in?
------------------
Plug-ins are used to expand DS Cinder's core functionality. Plug-ins are not a part of the core library because they are not used in all projects. You should consider writing a plug-in rather than a class if you find your functionality will be desired in later projects. Plug-ins are too complex to be a class and too specific to be a part of the core library.

How to develop a plug-in?
-------------------------
DS Cinder uses Visual Studio projects and Visual Studio property sheets to pull in any dependency / plug-in. You can start developing a plug-in by copying this project and renaming it. Remember to:

 - Rename `plugin_name.vcxproj`
 - Rename `plugin_name.vcxproj.filters`
 - Rename `props/plugin_name.props`
 - Rename `props/plugin_name_d.props`

Customize property sheets to pull in any dependencies your plug-in introduces. It is a good practice to retain DS Cinder's directory hierarchy.

 - If you are developing a sprite for example, put it under: `plaugin_path\src\ds\ui\sprite`. If you are developing a networking extension, put it under `plaugin_path\src\ds\network`. Take a look at `%DS_PLATFORM_086%\src\ds` for the full hierarchy.
 - Always take a look at existing plug-ins to maintain a consistent look and feel for your plug-in.
 - If your plugin needs a binary dependency (a DLL for example) don't forget to add a post-build event to plugin's property sheet.

How to use a plug-in?
---------------------
Open your application's Solution (generated by the project generator `pg.exe` for example):

 - **In Solution Explorer:** Right click on the solution > `Add` > `Existing Project` and add the `.vcxproj` file.
 - **In Property Manager:** Find your own project's name and expand it. Right click on Debug > `Add existing property sheet` and add the property sheet suffixed with `_d` found in plug-in's `props` folder.
 - **In Property Manager:** Repeat the same procedure as above, but this time add the property sheet without `_d` suffix for Release configuration.